# Functional programmingFunctional programs are composed of elements that **are** something. They don't **do** something. ## No _observable_ side effects- No mutation of variables- No printing to console or to any device- No writing to files, databases, or whatever- No exceptionsReally? Out of memory exception, stack overflow exception, thread launching, registering mutations, etc.Actually, we are talking about no intentional side effect.How can a program be useful without side effect? Obviously, it can't. We are talking about composing your program with functions that have no side effect. But at the end of your computation, apply the necessary side effects.## Not affected by the external worldNo side effect isn't enough for to be functional. The output of a functional program must depend only on its argument.- Not read data from console, file, remove URL, database or even the system- Deterministic- Won't break/hang due to any thing external## What are the benefits- Easier to debug- Easier to test- More modular, and easier to compose/recombine- Thread safe (avoid mutation to any shared data)#FunctionsFunction is a mathematic concept. It's a relation between a source set (domain) to a target set (codomain). Every element in domain must have exactly one corresponding element in codomain.Can a function have multiple parameters? Actually it can't. Every function is a relation between one set to another, not two sets to another. But each element in domain can be a tuple of multiple elements.## Functions in JavaA method is a function when- It must not mutate anything outside the method- It must not mutate any arguments- No exceptions- Must always return a value- Always return the same value when invoked with the same arguements